ID 108: Doing persuading
Definition of Norm Category 
Doing persuading is giving (additional) reasons, examples, support etc. for why something is true or valid. It is proposing an idea for the purpose of persuading someone to accept or do something based on this idea. The methods, logic, and tactics used in persuasion vary greatly depending upon culture or context. Some approaches to persuasion are very rational, analytical, and direct while others are more circular and less direct. 

People from different cultures, ages, and backgrounds use a variety of different persuasion techniques. In some cultures, for example, it is appropriate to appeal to the individual benefit and in others the collective benefit. Some cultures find emotion and scare tactics as culturally-appropriate and effective methods of persuasion while others appeal more to logic, reasoning and cold, calculated facts. The role of the person doing the persuading and their relationship to the person they are trying to persuade also has a big impact on what is appropriate. In some cultures and contexts, the authority of an elder or expert holds much greater weight and meaning than in others. Similarly, in some cultures the use of honorific terms of respect can also be very important in persuading someone about something. 

Eye contact during persuasion also varies greatly. In some cultures, it is polite to make eye contact while trying to persuade someone because it is a sign of honor, openness, trustworthiness, and respect while in other cultures it is much more appropriate to avoid eye contact out of a sign of respect. 

Persuasion can also involve building rapport and relationship building in order to establish trust. In such cases, persuasion may involve conversation which builds rapport, trust, and honor even if the persuader is not providing direct evidence to support their argument. 

This norm is distinct from social norms involving agreement or disagreement. Agreement is when two or more people hold and often express the same opinions as each other, and disagreement is when two or more people hold and often express the opposite opinions. The goal of persuasion is to express clear logic about why something is valid or true, but the persuasion norm does not involve discussion about whether or not the persuader is in agreement with the other person(s) they are talking to. Often, however, the norms of persuasion and agreement/disagreement go hand in hand. 

Chinese/Mandarin Norms about Doing Admiration 
Introduction
Specific Norms

