ID 109: Doing refusing a request 
Definition of Norm Category 
Refusing a request is when one person indicates that they are not willing to provide assistance or other action that has been asked for. In other words, they decline someone?s request for help. This refusal could be in response to a direct or indirect request. For example, if a parent commanded their adult child, ?Wash the dishes before bed? and the adult child responded, ?No, I can?t do that right now. I?m busy? this would be a refusal of a direct request. Another example responding to an indirect request might be if one person said, ?It?s cold in here? (implying please turn up the heat) and another person responded, ?Here?s a blanket. I can?t turn up the heat any higher because of the cost?. This would be a refusal of an indirect request. Both would be examples of refusing a request. 

Request refusals can also be both direct or indirect depending on the cultural and situational context. For example, in an American English business context, if someone were to ask a colleague for help on a project a direct refusal might be something like ?I?m unable to assist you with your request at this time.? An indirect response might be ?I?ve got a lot of tasks on my plate at the moment? which would not be a direct ?no? but would imply the person is unable to help. The context and relationship of the people conversing determine whether a direct or indirect request is more appropriate. For example, in some cultures, a direct refusal is considered polite, straightforward, and honest while in others it can be considered rude. In other cultures, providing an indirect refusal helps the involved parties to save face by not having to directly refuse someone. In some contexts, a direct refusal might be polite in a close, informal, peer-to-peer relationship, but it might be considered inappropriate in a context where there is a power differential such as with a boss and employee or with an elder. 

A request refusal can include another piece of information to soften the refusal such as an apology, a positive before the refusal, gratitude, an excuse, or an alternative solution. Consider the following American English examples: 
? Sorry, but I am unable to assist you with that project at this time. (apology)
? That sounds like a very meaningful opportunity, but I?m unable to participate at this time. (positive) 
? I can?t help you with that right now, but you could talk to my coworker. (alternative solution)
? Thanks for considering me for this project, but I am unable to help you with it at this time. (thanks) 
? I can?t take care of your dog this week because I?m traveling for work. (excuse) 

For simplicity?s sake, this norm excludes utterances that are a refusal of a request for information, such as if a person asks, ?Will you please give me your phone number?? and a person refuses this request by saying, ?No, I don?t share my phone number with strangers.? It also excludes utterances which are refusals to offers or invitations. For example, if a person is asked if they want tea and respond, ?No, I?m ok thanks? or is invited to a party and says, ?I?m sorry I have plans at that time.? 

Chinese/Mandarin Norms about Doing Refusing a Request  
Introduction
Specific Norms
