ID 106: Doing admiration
Definition of Norm Category 
Doing admiration is expressing admiration, respect, approval, appreciation, and commendation for someone or something. It could be offered in response to a variety of things including behavior, ideas, performance, physical characteristics, objects, and accomplishments to name a few. The type of admiration and what can be admired vary depending on culture and varied contexts within a given culture such as type of relationship, level of formality, sex, differing situations, and power dynamics to name a few. Doing admiration can serve a variety of social functions including praising someone, establishing solidarity, building rapport, showing respect, encouraging someone, softening a situation, hedging, or relieving someone?s anxiety or social tension again depending on the culture and context. 

In some cultures, admiration is part of small talk. For example, in the US, it is appropriate in a context both with strangers or friends to make a comment like ?I like your shoes? or ?Nice phone case? to break the ice and have something to talk about. In other cultures, this would be too familiar a conversation to have with an acquaintance or stranger. 

Admiration can be required, preferred, dispreferred, or inappropriate depending on the culture, the social context, and the type of admiration being offered. For example, admiration of another person?s work might be required or preferred in a business context, but the admiration of someone?s physical attire might be dispreferred or completely inappropriate in the same business context. The type of admiration acceptable among close friends or family or someone of the same would often be entirely different from that which is acceptable among acquaintances or strangers or people of a different sex. 

For example, to illustrate this norm in American English, consider a simple example from this video (0:33-0:37). A son and father discuss their hiking snacks and the son says, ?Dad makes the best homemade bread? which is a simple example of doing admiration for both the father?s bread and his breadmaking skills. 

At times, admiration can precede other comments which are perceived as negative such as criticism, refusal of a request, or disagreement. For example in American English, a person might say, ?I love your creativity, but we need a more practical solution to the problem? or ?That sounds like a really fun idea, but I can?t make it? or ?I think that?s an interesting perspective, but I don?t agree because ??. In each of these situations, admiration precedes the second part of the sentence which is an opposite or more negative response.

This norm does not include responses to admiration unless the response is reciprocation of the admiration. For example, if two friends meet and one friend says ?I love your hair? and the other responds with ?Thank you,? this response would not be included as part of this norm. However, if the friend were to respond with ?Your new cut is super cute also? rather than ?thank you?, then this response of admiration would also be an example of the admiration norm. 

Chinese/Mandarin Norms about Doing Admiration 
Introduction
Specific Norms

