ID 105: Doing thanking
Definition of Norm Category 
Doing thanks is expressing gratitude and appreciation to someone for something they have said/done. It is often expressed verbally but might be accompanied by non-verbal signs such as a bow, handshake, hug, or prolonged eye contact for emphasis or even in the place of the verbal thanks. 

The extent to which different cultures express thanks varies greatly. In some cultures, thanks is expressed frequently for both small, seemingly insignificant actions such as when someone holds a door for you, hands you a glass of water, or picks up something you dropped. It is also expressed for more significant actions such as if someone gives you large gifts or helps you with a big project. In other cultures, thanks is rarely given for smaller actions because it is just assumed you will help someone with these smaller actions as part of your societal, social, or familial responsibility. In fact it would be considered distancing or strange to thank someone for their help in small things. For example, if a parent cooked a meal for their child, this might not require a verbal thank you; it is an assumed part of looking out for your family. In such instances, the returned gratitude often comes in the reciprocation of aid and looking out for the well-being of another rather than a verbal or non-verbal expression of thanks.

Another example in which this cultural difference might be observed is in thanks offered in response to a compliment. In some cultures, it would be customary to offer thanks if someone offers you a compliment. In other cultures, it would be considered prideful, rude, or vain to acknowledge and say thank you to a compliment. 
To illustrate this norm of doing thanks in American English, consider this video example (6:33-6:38) of a father and son discussing their hiking snacks and the father says, ?So, that?s today?s lunch? and the son responds with a simple ?So grateful for it? in a simple offer of thanks to his father for a simple thing that he gave to him. 

The norm of doing thanks only applies to expressing gratitude to someone for something they have done. It does not include the thanking of a pet or a religious being. For example, if someone says to their dog ?Thank you for being such a good boy? or prays before a meal and says, ?Thank you, God, for this food?, both of these instances would not count as an instance of this norm. 



Chinese/Mandarin Norms about Doing Thanking 
Introduction
Specific Norms
