ID 103: Doing greeting
Definition of Norm Category 
Greetings are expressions of acknowledgement of another person upon meeting them for the first time or seeing someone after a period of time apart, often to show recognition or welcome. Greetings can be both something you say or something you do. They are ways of expressing social politeness that may function as a way of initiating further interaction although greetings can be behaviors that are ends in themselves. For example, if you pass someone on the street, you might say ?hello? or make eye contact with them, and then continue walking without further interaction. However, if you walk into a department store and are greeted with a ?hello? from the sales rep, they most likely plan to continue the interaction by asking if they can be of assistance. Greetings often involve common verbal greeting formulas such as ?hi,? ?hello,? ?good morning,? ?welcome,? inquiries on the well-being of the other, or expressions of pleasure upon seeing/meeting the other person(s). Greetings are often accompanied by eye contact, facial expressions such as smiles, nodding, waving, bowing, other body and head orientation, approaching, and/or physical contact, such as handshakes, fist/elbow bumps, hugs, or cheek kissing. 
Greetings usually include both initiatory greetings which begin the interaction between two people and a return greeting; both failing to greet someone initially and failing to return a greeting may be considered norm violations, though in some situations (such as when addressing a large group) a response may not be expected. In some contexts, there may be protocol as to which party must initiate the greeting; for example, the Queen of England may not be approached for conversation. Status and relationship may also dictate the manner of the greeting; for example, lower status persons might bow more deeply and use formal greetings to higher status persons, who may give a shallow nod and a casual greeting instead. Certain groups might have ritualized greeting forms such as special handshakes or greeting formulas. Context may also determine when a greeting is appropriate. For example, in American culture prior to the Covid pandemic of 2020, a fist bump would have been considered too formal for a business setting; however, when very few people were shaking hands, a fist or elbow bump suddenly became more appropriate in both formal and informal settings.  

Greetings are considered separate from introductions, during which people provide information about themselves or others in initial interactions. Introductions should not be marked as part of the greeting norms.
Here are a few American English video examples of greetings: 
In the video, Meeting My Girlfriends Parents and They Didn?t Like Me, a man meets his partner?s parents for the first time in a fast food restaurant. While they are strangers meeting for the first time, the interaction is very informal. They exchange the following words: 

Man: (stands and turns towards people coming): Hey, how are you doing? Nice to meet you. How are you doing? Hey, hey, Nice to meet you. (slaps and shakes mother?s hand)
Mother: (inaudible)
Daughter and mother: (look and wave at each other)
Mother: Hi. 
Man: How are you doing? 
Father: What?s up? 
Man: You doin? good? (slaps father?s hand, does a special handshake, smiles, makes eye contact) 

This is an example of a polite but informal greeting at a first-time meeting. The greeting is polite because it is a first-time meeting, and the man in the scenario obviously wants to make a good impression on his partner?s parents, but informal due to the casual restaurant setting; people are informally dressed. The man stands to be polite as his partner?s family enters, turns towards them, and repeats various greetings over and over as a sign of sincerity and friendliness. He slaps and shakes each party?s hands, smiling and making eye contact. The daughter and her mother, who are already acquainted, also exchange an affectionate informal nonverbal greeting by waving at each other from a short distance. The father and mother also give short verbal greetings.

In the video, Good Morning, Yall, a student greets the class ?Good morning, y?all? and smiles every day when he walks in the room. This is an example of a common greeting expression that is ritualized and repeated regularly. It also shows a person greeting a group of people, to which specific responses may not be expected.

In the video, Muslim Preacher Refuses to Greet a Jew!, two men of different faith backgrounds greet each other. This video is an interesting example of the norm category because one man?s norm adherence is another man?s norm violation. According to his beliefs, one man believes that he cannot use the entire ?peace? greeting formula upon a man from a different faith background. The second man is offended that he refuses to complete the formula and wishes him peace when he himself does not abide by the same norm. 
 
First Man: Wa-alaikum, how are you?
Second Man: Wa-alaikum salaam or wa-alaikum?
First Man: Wa-alaikum
Second Man: Not wa-alaikum salaam? Why not wa-alaikum salaam?
First Man: Why, are you going to teach me a lesson or something? 
Second Man: Yeah, because I said, I said peace be upon you, I said, and you repeat that ?and you? rather than peace be upon you back, yeah?
First man: Yeah 
Second Man: And so the traditional greeting is, i say ?assalamu alaikum? and you say, ?Wa-alaikum salaam?
First Man: Yeah 
Second Man: So let's try again, assalamu alaikum
First Man: Wa-alaikum
Third Man: (off-camera, laughs)
Second Man: So the reason he's doing this, is there's a hadith that says you can't say wa-alaikum salaam back to a Jew, you can only say wa-alaikum because there's a belief that the Jew or the Christian could have wished death upon you, which I clearly didn't. I said, ?Assalamu alaikum,? yeah, and now he?s refusing to wish peace up on me
Chinese/Mandarin Norms About Greetings
Introduction
Using specific greetings in Mandarin Chinese culture is very important in formal settings or when interacting with people of a higher social status such as a supervisor or an older generation such as a grandparent. However, greetings are far more relaxed in intimate relationships such as with family and friends or people of similar or younger ages and in informal settings. 

Specific Norms
A. Formal Greetings: In a formal/business setting, or in a situation with a low-status person addressing a high-status person, or in a situation with unfamiliar people meeting, it is obligatory to politely acknowledge the other person(s) and use a standard greeting along with non-verbal acknowledgements such as smiles, handshakes, or bows. 



B. Service industry greetings: In a public setting, if one person is serving the other in a professional capacity such as at a store or restaurant, it is obligatory to acknowledge the customer with a standard greeting (words or smile/bow), but it is not necessary to use words or have extensive interaction beyond what is required for the transaction; it is acceptable to get right to the point of the interaction. 


C. Informal greetings: In an informal setting between people already familiar with each other and who see each other often, such as family members or close friends, it is obligatory to show some acknowledgement, but it is acceptable to omit a formal greeting expression and instead comment on their or one?s own arrival/presence or other current action.



