ID 102: Doing criticism 
Definition of Norm Category 
Doing criticism is expressing disapproval of someone or something based on perceived faults or mistakes. It is asserting that someone is to blame for something wrong or illegal. 

The level of directness used when offering criticism varies in different cultures and contexts. In some cultures more direct criticism is preferred while in others indirect or implicit criticism is more preferable. The type of acceptable criticism also varies based on power dynamics. For example, it might be appropriate for a direct supervisor to criticize a supervisee but be inappropriate in the reverse or be expected that the supervisee offer more indirect criticism of the supervisor. 

Criticism might be accompanied by intensifying language for emphasis through the insertion of words like ?totally? or ?absolutely? in criticism such as ?This is totally inappropriate? or ?This is absolutely unacceptable?. At other times, it might be offered with hedging language such as ?maybe?, ?a bit of?, or ?might? in sentences such as ?Maybe you could try a different method? or ?I think this document might need a bit of editing?. 

Depending on a culture?s preferred level of directness, different phrases could be interpreted in different ways. If someone said, ?It?s a bit of a disappointment,? it could be interpreted as ?I?m really angry and upset? or ?It doesn?t really matter.? Similarly a comment such as ?Very interesting? could as a criticism ?It?s a bad idea? or a compliment ?I?m impressed.? 

Criticism might seem very similar to disagreeing with someone or complaining about something. The important difference to note is that criticism implies blame, whereas disagreeing or complaining do not. Criticism might be preceded or followed by a compliment such as in a comment ?These presentation slides look nice, but there is some content that needs to be edited.? However, the compliment would not be considered part of the norm of doing criticism. 

These two American English examples illustrate the concept of criticism. 

For example, in this video of a contract negotiation (31:12-31:30), one man says, ?I still haven't heard a response to why, or how you can look your officers in the eye, in a staff meeting, chief, and tell, say that we're giving the lieutenants a different set of rights than the other rank and file members.?  As he offers this criticism, he does so politely with a calm tone of voice and respectful tone of voice. 

A second example illustrating adherence to the norm of doing criticism can be seen in a performance review discussion between a supervisor and a supervisee. The supervisor said, ?One thing I?d like to see you develop is more independence in your tasking. I certainly appreciate that you want to get things right, but sometimes I think you could apply the principles you already understand in order to figure out the answer to the question without asking. Your instincts are good, so you should trust them more.? This criticism is offered politely and sandwiched between appreciation and compliments. 
Chinese/Mandarin Norms about Doing Admiration 
Introduction			
In Chinese culture it is common for direct criticism to be given to subordinates or those of lower status, while criticizing a superior or someone of higher status is uncommon and is typically done in a much more indirect manner. It is the norm to not criticize the government. There may be differences in how younger vs. older generations conform to the norms ? the younger generation tends to be bolder in criticizing superiors or higher status individuals. 				
Specific Norms
A. Direct Criticism: In a professional setting with higher status speaking to lower status, it is permitted to use direct language, a strong tone of voice, and display emotions when criticizing. 



B. Indirect criticism(lower status to higher status): In a professional setting with a lower status person speaking to a high status person, it is preferred to use indirect, subtle language when criticizing while being respectful. 


C. Indirect criticism (peer-to-peer): In a professional setting with peer speaking to peer, it is obligatory to criticize using indirect, subtle language and tone. 




