ID 101: Doing apology 
Definition of Norm Category 
Apology is an acknowledgement of responsibility for a wrongdoing against another person or group of people, a written or spoken expression of regret to show you are sorry for the wrong done, and/or a request for forgiveness for the physical or mental  harm  or someone close to you has caused during an interaction. The harm may be intentional or unintentional. For example, someone might apologize for unintentionally bumping into someone, breaking something, or being late, or they might apologize for intentionally saying something rude, mean, or inappropriate. It could be from perceived or real differences between the person attempting to apologize and the person whose forgiveness is sought. The manner and ability for someone to make amends for the harm is related to the relationship and power differential between people and the degree of harm caused. For example, the consequences of raising your voice and getting angry with a family member might be a lot less severe than if it happened at work with a colleague or boss.  

The apology is often scrutinized for sincerity possibly more than any other type of interaction; an insincere apology is viewed as a norm violation and is likely to be rejected. Often insincerity is observed in tone of voice and body language rather than in the actual words that are spoken. A speaker may use the same words to apologize, but if their tone is too casual, it might be perceived as being insincere. Speakers may use conventionalized apology formulas, or may take responsibility, ask for forgiveness, and/or express regret in more spontaneous utterances, which may be perceived as more sincere. Recipients of apologies might also assess the sincerity of the apology based on nonverbal cues, such as facial expressions, gestures, head down and gaze lowered, or a penitent stance (bowing or kneeling). In a case of minor offense such as accidently bumping into someone or being 5 minutes late, an apology may be used to show politeness without any deep feelings of regret, or even feelings of offense on the part of the wronged. 

The apology is often accompanied by explanations or excuses for the wrong committed, requests to be spared from possible consequences of  the harm, or offers to make amends for the wrong committed. For example, if a person is caught speeding down the highway by a police officer, they might apologize and provide explanations such as being late for work or an important job interview and ask the officer not to give them the ticket. In this case, the apology would be marked as a norm, but the explanation would not. While these are often used as additional markers of sincerity or insincerity, they should be considered distinct from this norm category and left unmarked for apology.	

Chinese/Mandarin Norms About Apology
Introduction
Apologies in Mandarin/Chinese culture are guided by Confucian principles of harmony and respect. Apologies are also directly related to face in Chinese culture. Face is a person?s honor, dignity or respect. Saving face is protecting your own or someone else?s social standing, reputation, influence, dignity, respect, and honor. Losing face is losing your self-respect, reputation, honor, etc. Apology is related to face both in terms of losing face by admitting wrong and saving face by apologizing after an obvious offense. It is not common for higher status/power persons to apologize to lower status persons directly.

As Chinese culture facilitates conflict avoidance, and apologizing can cause some loss of face, direct verbal apologies might be avoided when an indirect approach, such as offering a wordless olive branch or a written message, can be taken instead. However, if the offense was either egregious enough that face has already been lost and an apology is needed to save face, or the offense was light enough that an apology is a small politeness and does not cost face, Chinese people will directly apologize using a standard apology. Apology helps restore face to the wronged party. Alternatively, using a proxy is a common way to both apologize and save face. For example, a company in China, the Tianjin Apology and Gift Center, offers apologies on behalf of its clients for a fee. More commonly, however, it is a person who is associated closely with the offender.

Within a collectivist, hierarchical society such as Chinese culture, when a member of a group wrongs an outside party, the whole group shares the blame, especially people in authority within the group who carry responsibility for their dependents and inferiors. For this reason, Asian elder children are often punished or scolded for the  failures of their younger siblings especially for academic failures. Thus, it is common for a representative of the group (a family member, a company leader or representative, etc.) to be the one to extend an apology on the behalf of the offending person ? even if the offending person is not personally sorry. This helps save face for the group without costing face for the offender who does not have to directly acknowledge their  wrong and who is probably acting outside of the norm in failing to protect the reputation of their group. 	 	
Specific Norms
A. Light apology: In a situation where a minor offense such as bumping into someone or arriving late to a meeting has been committed, it is preferable to give a mild  apology to acknowledge the slight wrong.


A. Serious apology: In a situation where a major offense has been committed, it is obligatory to use stronger and higher intensity apology words or phrases. 
 

B. Repeated apology: In a situation where a major offense has been committed, it is preferable to repeat an apology multiple times or apologize multiple times using different apologies to emphasize sincerity.


C. Apology by proxy: When a person commonly associated with a group deeply offends another person who has a relationship with that group, but the offender is not necessarily sorry for it, it is obligatory that a person associated with the offender?s group, especially a person who bears responsibility, extend an apology to the offended person(s) on behalf of the offender. It is common for the apologizer to accept personal responsibility even though they were not the offender.
 

