ID 110: Doing taking leave
Definition of Norm Category 
Taking leave is expressing the intention to depart or end a conversation or interaction. The clearest indication of the norm is typically the use of a leave-taking formula of some sort. American English examples include phrases such as ?Goodbye?, ?See you later?, or ?Have a great evening?. All of these phrases indicate that a conversation has ended and a speaker is departing. The type of phrase used often varies depending on factors such as the type of relationship of the participants, the length of time before the next planned meeting, and the level of formality of a situation.

In addition to standard leave-taking phrases, this norm could also include other components as well including an announcement of the intention to leave, an apology for leaving, admiration of the other person, gratitude, or an excuse for leaving. Consider the following American English examples of these components: 
? Well, I need to get going ? (intention to leave) 
? I?m sorry but I?ve got to leave a little early ? (apology)
? It was so great to finally meet you ? (admiration) 
? Thanks for taking the time to meet today ? (gratitude)
? I?ve got to run to another meeting ? (excuse) 

A leave-taking norm might also include non-verbal indications on the part of one party that they need to wrap up an interaction and leave. A person might start collecting their belongings, standing up, or moving toward the door to signal to another person(s) that they need to leave. 

The type of relationship often determines the type of non-verbal gestures that are used during leave-taking. In some cultures and contexts, a hug or kiss on the cheek might be appropriate, but in others a bow, handshake, fist bump, high five, or wave might be more acceptable. At times, a question of what non-verbal gesture is preferred might also accompany the leave-taking. For example, in light of the recent COVID pandemic, one person might ask the other person if they are more comfortable with a handshake or would prefer an elbow or fist bump? While a fist bump might never have previously been acceptable in a business context, it might now be preferred depending on the person. Cultural, contextual, and societal factors all determine what non-verbal gestures are appropriate. 

At times, the process of taking leave might be a multi-stage process interrupted by conversation in between. For example, a group of people might get up together to leave a restaurant, initiating the leave-taking process. Then, they might stand by the front door of the restaurant and chat for a while longer before someone indicates the need to once again take leave. This same group might then walk to their cars together conversing in the parking lot before finally actually leaving. 

Context and timing also determine the expectations surrounding leave-taking. For example, in a large-meeting a person needing to leave early might quietly slip out of the room early without saying goodbye so as not to interrupt the meeting. In an American context, this would be the polite and acceptable method in this context. However, if the same person were to get up quietly without saying goodbye in a small group gathering, this might be considered rude. 

This norm, however, excludes finalizing a negotiation deal/agreement/deal, wrapping up a conversation, or ending a topic. It does not include anything related to the topic of the conversation or purpose of the interaction although the leave-taking norm might start in parallel to other norms. For example, a conversation could be happening, and one person could begin subtly indicating their intention to leave by gathering their papers, putting a lid on their pen, and closing their notebook. This might be happening as a group is wrapping up their conversation or finishing a negotiation. 

For example, in this video of a union negotiation (8:09-end), several men say ?Ok, thank you, appreciate it?, lightly slap their hands on the table to indicate the end of a meeting, and everyone stands up. Some shake hands and exchange a variety of leave-taking phrases such as ?Very nice meeting you guys?, ?see you later guys?, and ?Nice to finally meet you, sir?. This example demonstrates a variety of components that can be involved in the leave taking norm including thanks, admiration, and handshakes. This norm is clearly after the negotiation has been concluded because it does not include any discussion of the topics discussed during the negotiation. 

Chinese/Mandarin Norms about Doing Taking Leave 
Introduction
Specific Norms

