ID 104: Doing request
Definition of Norm Category 

Requests are made when one party asks another to do something. The request could be phrased in various ways (commands, statements, or questions) which may have implications for the politeness of the request; commands are usually the most direct and least polite request strategy. In some cases the request might be implicit in a statement that expresses a complaint, desire, or need, from which the addressee is expected to infer the actual request. An example of this could be if a person were to say, ?Wow, it?s really cold in this house? with the implied request being to turn up the heat. Context, such as location, roles, or situation, drives expectations for what/how requests are made. The content of the request itself may be inappropriate and cause offense depending on the relationship. Requests may be made on behalf of a third party. 

For example, in a business context, a professional is expected to provide services/goods for a
customer, but the terms of the exchange may be up for negotiation. e.g. In a certain type of
market, one may be allowed to bargain, but in a franchise store, prices are fixed, and
bargaining will be seen as a norm violation.

For simplicity?s sake, this norm excludes utterances that are a request for information, such as ?Excuse me, where is the post office?? It also excludes utterances that may be phrased as requests but are instead offers or invitations, such as ?Please have some tea? or ?Could you join us for dinner??

Requests may be accompanied by:
? Giving information that highlights the need for the requested thing
? Giving information that puts pressure on the other party to give in (e.g. threat, offer of something else in return)
? Arguments to support the request by showing that the request or the terms proposed for the request are justified. This could include complaints/criticism. 
? Politeness markers such as ?please?

Power distance affects the request:
? An actor with lower power/status may not feel they have the freedom to refuse a request from a higher-power/status person.
? Actors with greater power or status may be more likely to phrase requests in more direct ways, e.g. imperatives vs. questions.

In some cultures, requests can also affect saving face. Saving face is protecting your own or someone else?s social standing, reputation, influence, dignity, respect, and honor. Losing face is losing your self-respect, reputation, honor, etc. Requests might affect face in the following ways: 
? Having to ask for something may cause loss of face.
? Being refused may cause loss of face.
? Being asked for something one cannot fulfill may cause loss of face.
? Not being asked for something can cause loss of face if the requester asks someone else instead.
? The method by which one asks for something can cause loss of face.
? A person may show offense to an inappropriate request in order to save face (?How dare you ask me to??). Not reacting in this way could cause loss of face, i.e. one is accepting that this is an appropriate way to treat them.

In the following video, McDonald?s worker gets furious with rude customer, people in a drive-through line make requests of an employee delivering their food. 

This video gives various examples of the norm category. The customers begin by expressing a complaint to make an implied request. When the employee asks them directly what their request is, they make a critical remark phrased as a request (?work fast?), they begin to ask directly for free food using imperatives. The employee uses an imperative to ask them to talk to his manager. The customers reiterate their request through a statement about their expectations and another direct command.

The requests are considered a norm violation because 1) the people are making a demand of a person who does not have the authority to fulfill their requests, 2) the people are asking for something to be given free, a request that is often criticized in American culture as being greedy and entitled, and 3) the people are criticizing the employee (?work fast?) and making their request in a way that may be considered impolite. 

Woman: We've waited like 25 minutes for this food. (strong hint) 
Employee: What do you want me to do?
Woman: I don't know - like work fast. (direct command although this could be perceived as a criticism)
Man: Some free juice or something. (direct command) 
Woman: Yeah like give us some free food or something. (direct command)
Employee: Talk to the manager. (direct command). I'm a new employee. 
Man: No, no, no but we expect the food for free or something you know. (want statement)
Woman: I mean yeah give us some free food (direct command)

Chinese/Mandarin Norms About Requests
Introduction
In Chinese culture, factors such as status, power, age, gender, and familiarity play a large role in determining the way in which requests are made. Another factor is the weightiness of the request, that is, how important, difficult, or costly it is for the addressee to fulfill the request. The weightier the request, the more politely or indirectly a person may express the request. Female speakers are also more likely to use indirect or polite request strategies.

Despite stereotypes, research shows that Chinese people often prefer direct request strategies over indirect strategies. In other words, they prefer desired requests to be made clearly and explicitly rather than being inferred or implicit. Higher-status/power persons are more likely to use direct commands and may also omit politeness phrases , especially in professional settings speaking to inferiors; familiar persons such as family members or roommates may also give direct commands without politeness markers without offense. 

Specific Norms
A. Direct commands (e.g. ?Do this? or ?Go away?): In an interaction between a higher status/power party and a lower status/party who are already familiar with each other, it is acceptable and common to use a direct command to make requests. 


B.   Polite Commands (e.g. ?Please do this?): When an equal, lower status, or unfamiliar person gives a direct command, it is preferable to use a politeness marker. 



C. Possibility, willingness, and ability requests: In any context that requires extra politeness, especially interactions between unfamiliar people / lower- to higher-status, or if the request is more significant or costly to fulfill, it is preferable to ask about the possibility, willingness, or ability of someone to fulfill a request, rather than directly requesting something.? (e.g. ?Could you??? ?Would you be willing to??? ?Would it be possible to??)



D. Want statements: In any context that requires politeness, especially interactions between unfamiliar people / lower- to higher-status persons, or if the request is more significant or costly to fulfill, it is acceptable for a speaker to imply a request through a statement or question about their preferences, desires, or needs in a polite tone of voice. (A want statement could also be considered overly direct or rude when made abruptly or in a rude tone of voice, but is acceptable from a higher-status person.)


E. Strong hints1: In a situation that requires extra politeness, due to status, power, or possibly gender, it is preferred that a speaker implies a request through strong hints rather than directly commanding or requesting something.



1 As defined by CCSARP 
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

